**TreeVada** is a deterministic grammar inference tool. Given a black-box parser and example programs, TreeVada can infer high quality grammar. TreeVada adapts the *tree generalization via bubble and merge* technique from [Arvada](https://github.com/neil-kulkarni/arvada). 

## Reproducibility
Pull the Docker image from [here](https://hub.docker.com/r/marefin/treevada) to reproduce the results reported in our paper. The image contains all the seed inputs used in our experiments. You need to have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed in your system. 
```
docker pull marefin/treevada:v2
docker run --rm -it marefin/treevada:v2
```
`/treevada-artifact/Readme.md` contains a detailed overview of the directory structure and how to run the scripts to reproduce the results.

## Building

Requires at least python 3.10. Install the following two packages via pip to make sure everything runs:
```
$ pip3 install lark-parser tqdm openai PrettyPrintTree
```
(Optional) for using python antlr4 parser
```
pip3 install antlr4-python3-runtime==4.9.2
```

## Running TreeVada

Running TreeVada is analogous to running Arvada. The following section is adopted from their repository. Suppose you have a directory containing a set of examples, `TRAIN_DIR`, and an oracle for a valid example, `ORACLE_CMD`. The restrictions on `ORACLE_CMD` are as follows:

- `ORACLE_CMD filename` should run the oracle on the file with name `filename`
- `ORACLE_CMD filename` should return 0 if the example in `filename` is valid, and an exit code greater than 0 if it is invalid. 

You can then run TreeVada via:
```
$ python3 search.py external ORACLE_CMD TRAIN_DIR LOG_FILE
```
this will store the learned grammar as a pickled dictionary in `LOG_FILE.gramdict`, and some information about training in `LOG_FILE`.

If you also have a held-out test set in `TEST_DIR`, you can evaluate the precision and recall of the mined grammar with the utility `eval.py`. This utility also handily prints out the unpickled grammar to `LOG_FILE.eval` file. The provided `LOG_FILE` must match one generated by search.py, as this utility looks for `LOG_FILE.gramdict`. 
```
$ python3 eval.py external [-n PRECISION_SET_SIZE] ORACLE_CMD TEST_DIR LOG_FILE
```
The optional `PRECISION_SET_SIZE` argument specifies how many inputs to sample from the mined grammar to evaluate precision. It is 1000 by default.

Of course, if you do not have a held-out test set, you can still evaluate the precision of the mined grammar by using your training directory as test:
```
$ python3 eval.py external [-n PRECISION_SET_SIZE] ORACLE_CMD TRAIN_DIR LOG_FILE
```
The Recall should be 1.0 in this case.


## LLM generated grammar

```
python3 gpt.py SEED_DIR SEED_NAME   #python3 gpt.py Seed_Programs/tinyc/tinyc-train tinyc-r1
```
Saves the grammar in a text file in results directory

```
python3 grammar_from_csv.py SEED_NAME ORACLE_CMD        #python3 grammar_from_csv.py tinyc-r1 Seed_Programs/tinyc/parse_tinyc
```
Reads the grammar from text file and creates binary format

```
python3 eval.py external ORACLE_CMD TEST_DIR LOG_FILE   #python3 eval.py external Seed_Programs/tinyc/parse_tinyc Seed_Programs/tinyc/tinyc-test tinyc-r1
```
Calculates Precision, Recall and F-1 score
## Acknowledgements

TreeVada is built upon its predecessor tool [Arvada](https://github.com/neil-kulkarni/arvada). Arvada is licensed under MIT license, please see the [Arvada License](https://github.com/neil-kulkarni/arvada/blob/master/LICENSE) for details. We thank the  developers [@carolemieux](https://github.com/carolemieux) and [@neil-kulkarni](https://github.com/neil-kulkarni) for their pioneering work.

<!-- ## Reproducing the Ablation Studies

Switch to the specific branch for a particular study

| Description      | Branch |
| :---        |    ----:   |
| Arvada replication (without parser timeout)      | ``replication``       |
| Deterministic version of Arvada   | `deterministic-replication`|
| Re-apply learned rules   | `reapply-deterministic` |
| Initial bracket-based trees   | `tree-all-bubble` |
| No partial merge   | `reapply-tree` | -->




